
Portfolio Project 1

Project Name : End to End analysis of pizza 🍕 sales dataset

Domain Type : Sales 💲

Tools used : Excel , Microsoft SQL Server



1.) Problem Statement : Consider a situation where a client who runs a pizza shop comes me   with his data which includes the following information about order date and time , pizza types , size etc . He wants to me  derive some insights from the data which will help in increase his revenue and maximize profits.



2. In order to derive insights from the dataset , i started understanding about the dataset , the process which i followed :

Data Cleaning 🧹  ➡️  Data Modelling ➡️ Data Analysis 📊



While analysing the dataset , i found out some KPI(key performance indicator) which i can add on dashboard , the  value for kpi's  are obtained by writing sql queries i.e importing the dataset into ms sql . 



KPI

1. Total Revenue : finding out the sum of the total price of all orders

2. Average order value : average amount spent per order , obtained by dividing the total revenue by the total no of orders

3. Total Pizzas sold : calculating the sum of all the quantities of pizzas sold

4. Total orders : the total no of orders placed

5. Average Pizzas Per order : the average no of pizzas sold per order , obtained by dividing the total number of pizzas sold by the total no of orders



For visualisation of data charts 📊 required , some of the charts which are added to dashboard 



1. Daily Trend for Total orders : Bar chart which will display the the daily trend of total orders over a specific time period

2. Hourly Trend for Total orders : Line chart which will display the hourly trend of total orders through out the day 

3. Percentage of sales by pizza category : Pie chart that shows the distribution of sales across different pizza categories

4. Percentage of sales by pizza size : Pie chart which shows the percentage of pizza sale according to its size

5.  Total Pizzas sold by category : Funnel chart which shows the total number of pizzas sold for each pizza category 

6. Top 5 Best Sellers by total pizzas sold : Bar chart which shows the top 5 best sellers out of the total pizzas sold

7. Bottom 5 worst Sellers by total pizzas sold : Bar chart which shows the worst  5 pizzas sold out of the total pizzas sold .
